Salesforce sandboxes

	1.	Developer
	2.	Developer pro
	3.	Partial
	4.	Full copy (replica of Production)


Copado Practices in salesforce

Things we have to note when we want to setup Copado in salesforce organization

1.make sure we have correct salesforce organization edition to install salesforce org

2.we can install latest version copado from success community .

3.Copado is a salesforce managed package and we only need to install in one Org, which will act as governance org. Copado will connect with other salesforce org using OAuth authentication access method

4.we have to provide  salesforce login detail for governance Org ,then from the security options we have to choose  Install for Admins only  and then approve third party access later we will provide access to package components to others.
5. After installation is done  under setup-> installed package -> check Copado Package

6.After deployment Register copado application in Copado server you can do by Navigating to Account Summary page and click Register application to finish registration process.

7.you can also white list Ip address so that you can create  list of trusted Ip addresses to access copado backend
     
               Setup -> Network access 
Note if  there is an Ip restrictions at the profile level we also needs to add these addresses in Login Ip Range section of profile

8. In Setup-> session settings to ensure enforce login ip is disabled

9.In Setup -> session setting ensure the  Lock session to the Ip address from which they originated is not enabled

Package Licence 
copado is a managed package that IS INSTALLED IN PRODUCTION ORG so all users who will be working with Copado must have  Salesforce licence that grant them access to manage package 

Copado User Permission:
Copado package provides Copado User permissons set which grant them access to all the copado functionality.
clone the user permission set and modify according to your needs  approach may differ according to  roles: admin,dev,release manager ,QA ,scrum matser 

Git Repository:
it is version control and a code base storage . before setting up git repo we need a Git Service provider accounts , Github,Bitbucket,GitLab,AzureDevOps.

Relevant sandboxes:
you should have a clear defined release process decide how many sandboxes are required  like  Dev1,2, INT,UAT,hotfix,Production and so on.

SYSAdmin USer:
as you will be deploying all the changes to other environment you need to grant copado access to perform action in those env . then to do so you have to create a SysAdmin user in all sandboxes that you will use in release process





